---
layout: post
author: brittany
title: Brittany's Meetup Reflections
---

#Meetup Meta Post

##[Meetup 1: TriPython: Scikit-learn](https://plus.google.com/104690587304044548007/posts/16fsAxTupMk)
 
I attended my first meetup on Feb 27, a meeting of the Triangle Python Users Group. At this particular meeting, Tim Hopper gave a presentation on the Scikit-learn library (http://scikit-learn.org/stable/). I had seen this toolkit and used it a little bit during the course of my masters paper research, and was really interested to begin to gain a better understanding of it. It is Python-based and open source, and it allows you to do many machine learning/text mining/NLP related tasks. Definitely if you are interested in these or other related areas, it would be a great tool to look into. One thing that the speaker discussed is the beauty of Python and libraries like this, and the fact that they make it so simple to write complex processes with just a few lines of code. If you’re interested in checking out his slides, he has a version of the presentation available on github at the following link: https://github.com/tdhopper/Research-Triangle-Analysts--Intro-to-scikit-learn

I attended this talk with Sunhwa. We missed the very beginning of it, but the event lasted about 2 hours and was held at WebAssign, located on the NCSU campus. As others have mentioned, it’s a really nice space. For this particular event, about 30 or so people were gathered. Obviously there were a lot of Python programmers, but given the scope of talk, I thought it was interesting that people came from different domain backgrounds. For instance, at one point the speaker was discussing some of the statistical properties of text, mentioning concepts like TFIDF, and several people didn’t seem to really know a lot about some of those things. However, they had a great programming and/or statistics background. It was encouraging to see that this is a constant learning process for everyone and we can all contribute our own particular specialties and knowledge. Overall, this was an interesting talk and a really cool chance to see how to continue to bridge many of my interests. Definitely hope to explore this tool some more.

##[Meetups 2 & 3: Pearl Hacks](https://plus.google.com/104690587304044548007/posts/gcgTwwAqZV8)

I attended the Pearl Hacks hackathon over the past weekend (March 22-23). It was a hackathon for “high school and college women interested in technology.” I have never done anything like this, and I went into it not really knowing what to expect, but it turned out to be really great overall! I grouped up with two undergraduate comp sci students (one from UVA, one from Duke) and we worked on an android app that would allow people to post instant updates of what’s going on in their area of the world on a map [code is here if you are so inclined: https://github.com/britth/LiveWorld]. Essentially, it was a chance to learn a bit about android app development, incorporating Google APIs, and (for me) refreshing myself on Java. They were both very experienced/comfortable Java coders, so I felt a little bit less useful, but it was still a nice experience. Unfortunately, I had to leave by midmorning the last day, but here are some highlights/insights I gleaned from the event:

1. Brainstorming: The organizers had a brainstorming session after the keynote address for anyone who didn’t know what project they wanted to work on or didn’t have a group. One mentor led it, and other mentors were in the group, and we were just able to put forth ideas and interests. Prior to this hackathon (and even for our class project), I was having trouble thinking of anything that I wanted to work on, so this was a great opportunity to get ideas that I never would have thought about. Hearing about what gaps other people see in existing technologies is always useful, because you are able to code something that you think might actually make a difference or be useful in someone’s life.

2. Pick a project you are really passionate about, or that will enable you to practice skills you really want to learn: This was kind of a mistake on my part. The project I picked, while sort of interesting from an application viewpoint, was really hard for me to feel like I could effectively contribute to. I would have much rather coded something in Python and used more of my data manipulation/text mining skills, which this project didn’t really afford so much. As such, I found myself feeling way over my head most of the time, and not interested enough in the project to overcome these frustrations. It was still fun, but I think it could have been a much more rewarding and exciting experience if I worked on something I was really passionate about. It also made me appreciate Python SO much; I can’t believe I ever coded in Java!

3. Sleep!: Um, seriously. None of my group slept overnight, which was a very, very bad idea. I was not built to stay up that long! #stillexhausted

Ultimately, I’m glad I overcame some of my hesitations and decided to go to this hackathon. It was great to meet other women who are really passionate about technology and can make great contributions to the field. Now that I know what to expect, I would certainly consider going to another one at some point. If any of you get a chance to go to Pearl Hacks next year (as a participant or mentor), I think you’d enjoy it!

##[Meetup 4: TriPython: Brython talk](https://plus.google.com/104690587304044548007/posts/3y13MELQ7aT)

I attended another meeting of TriPython last Thursday (3/27). This meet up was a talk about Brython, presented by Francois Dion. The presentation he gave can be found here: https://bitbucket.org/fdion/brython-prez. Brython basically enables you to run Python code in a browser; he talked about it almost as a replacement for Javascript. If I understood correctly, you can write Python code and include it in your HTML, and it is then translated into Javascript when it is rendered in the browser (my interpretation could be slightly off, though!). One thing I liked about his presentation is that he did a lot of demos, which gave you an idea of what Brython can be used to do. You can find a lot of the demos on the official project site: http://www.brython.info/ [Demos are specifically here: http://www.brython.info/gallery/gallery_en.html]. 

This meet up seemed a little bit more diverse than the last TriPython meeting I went to. It was in Durham this time, at Bull City Coworking. We went around the room at the end and introduced ourselves, which was a nice way to learn more about the other people who attend these meet ups. There were a few other people there who had a beginner level of experience in Python, so that was great. Also there was someone from trinket.io there, but I forgot her name :( In terms of subject matter, I enjoyed the other TriPython meet up more, but this was still interesting!
 
As an aside, one other thing I learned by going to this was that there is another major site where people host code called Bitbucket; that’s where this project resides (https://bitbucket.org/olemis/brython/src). I haven’t looked in depth, but I’d be interested to learn more about how this compares to Github, and the advantages/disadvantages of each. Github definitely seems to be the more popular choice, but I wonder what Bitbucket offers that draws its users to it.

##Reflections
I'm really glad this was an assignment for this class, because it's something I really enjoyed but I probably never would have done otherwise. I didn't realize there were so many programming events and meetups in the area, so it was great to get exposure to these groups and the communities they foster. My favorite was probably Pearl Hacks; I'd love to do another hackathon or some similar workshop/hands on programming events in the future. The talks were interesting and useful as well; I can imagine going to another to get exposure to more useful libraries and tools. I really liked the diversity I saw at Pearl Hacks particularly; it's encouraging to see a lot of different types of people who like to code, especially in comparison to the first TriPython meeting I attended where I believe there were at most 3 women (myself included) in total. Hopefully, I can continue to participate and continue to see more and more diverse groups of people getting involved!
